This last example that I'd like to go
through is card based layouts, but
we're really gonna shake things up and
push cards probably farther than
you have looked at them before.
So what I'm going to do first is,
I'm gonna talk through some of the HTML
that might be used to
put this card together.
Just so to show you how you can think
through the most semantic markup that
you might be using on that, and then
we're going to mix up both Flexbox and
grid, then dealing with these cards and
this layout on our next CodePen.
So as always, the starting CodePen is
available inside of the chapter 14
on the website for the course.
So let's start here and
we have a series of four items here for
this particular webpage.
And they all have the same
type of content, so
I'm just gonna focus on this first one.
And then I'll give you a few
minutes to code the other three.
So let's look at what we have here,
what we have given been
given here in our notations.
So we have a section with an ID of
artists, this might eventually be
something you wanna plug into either
the page that you are looking at here,
the homepage that we've been working on.
It might become part of the inside page or
an additional page in this website.
So let's set it up from the start with
that section with an ID of artists.
And I've given that section a heading
because sections require headings and
we're given an h2 because there's
likely an h1 elsewhere on the website.
After that, then we have basically these
units of content that have almost no
markup in them.
So I have here the words mixed media.
Anny Ronky,
I'm sorry if I pronounced your name wrong.
Anny Ronky, the image and
then a little bit of a description
with a link to annyronky.com.
So how are we going to go
about marking this up?
This is reflective of a trend that we have
seen quite a bit in cards where often
those words mixed media or teensy tiny,
they're at the top of the card.
And then Anny Ronky who is the focus
of this card would be enlarger
type because this is our artists.
That's the main Identifier of
this section of the website.
Anny Ronky is an artist, so
she's the next most important thing.
And the fact that she works in mixed
media is the third most important thing.
So that would indicate in terms of our
headings that our artists is the h2,
Anny Ronky would be the h3 and
mixed media winds up being the h4,
but it does mean it looks like
those headings are out of order.
And that's okay, you can in fact put your
headings out of order if you're trying to
tell the story in the way
that I just told you.
Our artists, Anny Ronky, mixed media.
So let's start by putting
in that particular markup.
This will be mixed media is the h4 here.
And then Anny Ronky will be the h3.
Okay, then we're going to
have our image here in place.
I've given you the image because here in
CodePen, you have to have the pro version
of CodePen in order to host images and you
would know what the URL was for the image.
So I've given you that
along with the old text.
After that,
we have a bit of text here that is
the description of what's going on here.
This description of the artist.
That of course is just a paragraph.
So we'll mark that up as such.
And then I just put in the words
down here on the bottom,
be sure to link to this website,
that's her website.
So we'll just mark that up and we can
say something like, make it a paragraph.
And then nahref = 'HTTPS'.
www.annyronky.com We'll
make it open in a new window,
target equals underscore blank.
Underscore blank and then we can
say visit website slash A, slash P.
Okay, so that's sort of the general markup
of the text that we've been given here.
Now, we need to think a little bit
more about how we would mark up or
indicate that this is one unit of text,
whatever that unit happens to be.
So many of you are probably thinking,
well, we should take all of this and
we should probably just wrap,
div around it.
That would be one approach.
But I think we could argue that we're
a little bit more specific here.
This chunk of information could
potentially show up on a syndication feed.
And it stands alone and
tells its own story,
we can see that this is a mixed
media thing at Anny Ronky's work.
Here's an example of her work.
Here's a little bit of
information about her.
There's a whole little mini-story
in this chunk of content.
And if that's the case,
then you can make use of the article tag.
So we'll start this with article and
we'll end it with slash article.
Okay, so that is my thoughts on how
we would go about marking this up.
And as always, good markup is the best
way to start this type of thing.
You can go through and
mark up all the rest of these,
then we'll go on to
the styling after that.
Now, we're gonna take
a quick peek at my markup.
It looks pretty much
exactly like the first one.
It's just a series of articles
that I have here on this web page.
So the next thing that I need to think
about is, as I keep telling you the whole
way through this course, the whole secret
of managing layout, whether you're working
with Flexbox or you're working with get
grid, is managing parents and children.
One of the things that
we're going to need to
do in this website is treat each of
these particular units of content.
In this case,
they happen to be the articles.
We wanna make sure that we can
grab onto those articles and
manipulate them in whatever way
we want in terms of layout.
Then we might also manipulate what goes
on inside of the article for its layout.
So we've got two types of layouts that
we might be working on here with these
particular cards.
So let's take a quick peak
at how our parents and
children are configured
inside of our HTML, and
see if we need to add anything before
we move on to the layout side of this.
So, here in CodePen, if you go to
the little down arrow next to the HTML and
you say fold all, I had problems
getting this working in Firefox myself.
But seems to be working in Chrome,
which is what I'm using now.
It seems to be working there better.
You fold it all up,
it folds all into the single section
element which contains
everything we're working with.
If you hit the down arrow once,
it'll show you that we now have
the following children of the section.
We have the h2 and
we have our four articles.
So that means that if I
was to do something here
in my CSS and say, let's say artists,
the artist's ID here,
and I said display grid.
What would happen is, and
let's say grid, template, columns.
And let's say I wanted to do something
like, repeat four comma 1fr,
The h2 becomes part of this
particular issue here on the webpage.
See that, because the age two is a child
of artists as are all of these articles.
So even though, I just said,
make four columns, grid will do its best.
It says, okay, I made four columns and
I put in the h2 and
the first three articles
into those columns.
Oops, I have an extra item.
I'll add another row and I'll start
populating my columns from there.
So that is exactly what just happened
with this particular layout.
Then around that problem,
we're going to have to group
together our articles in some way.
So you actually don't
need that CSS at all.
We're not gonna use it.
What we'll add to this then
is a div with a class of,
I've just called it article wrap.
And because that's the whole purpose
is to wrap around this article.
It serves no purpose whatsoever
in communicating anything about
this web page, the whole purpose
of this div is to hold a class and
to give us an environment for laying out
our cards in some method or another.
So that is the last thing that we need to
add to our HTML before we're ready to move
on and do some styling to what we have.